SPOILERS

SPOILERS

SPOILERS

SPOILERS

SPOILERS

SPOILERS

----------
Main Quest
----------

Quest 1: An Unbreakable Lock

    Starting the quest:
        Latest rumors from Thieves Guild members.
        Travel directly to "Suran Sewers, The Pit" and speak to Andreas Tucca.

    Speak to Andreas Tucca in the upper sewers' fighting pit to learn about a mysterious tower that appeared beneath Suran. 
    Andreas offers you a reward for investigating the tower and gives you a key to access the sewers' lower depths.
    Travel through the sewers' lower depths until you come across the entrance to the Crystal Grotto.
    Solve a riddle to open the tower's door. The answer is "Order."
    This quest is ongoing. Return to Andreas Tucca periodically throughout the main quest to collect gold rewards.

Quest 2: Introductions are in Order

    Starting the quest:
        As soon as you enter the tower, you are greeted by the Keeper. 
    
    After a short exchange, the Keeper teleports you to his study to continue the conversation. 
    Exhausting the "you are no mystery to me" topic finishes the quest.

Quest 3: Opposites Attract

    Starting the quest: 
        Speak to Tendil in the Crystallography Lab. 
        Select the "Earomar" topic and Tendil prompts you to deliver samples to his apprentice.

    Earomar asks you to deliver a letter to Talia. Refusing to deliver the letter ends the quest prematurely. 
    Talia is located in the Reflection Room. Speak to her, make a choice, and return to Earomar to finish the quest. 

Quest 4: A Guilty Conscience

    Starting the quest: 
        Speak to Lucien Durand in the storeroom opposite the Reflection Room.

    Listen to Lucien's story. At this point, you can either help him escape or look for his brother Gilles in the caverns.
    WARNING: If you help Lucien escape before speaking to Gilles, Gilles dies in the caverns.

    Finding Gilles:

        Gilles Durand is found in the Crystal Grotto fighting spiders. Help him, and he will confess to past wrongdoings involving Lucien.
        Following his confession, Gilles asks you to kill him. You can fulfill his request or convince him to tell Lucien the truth.

        If you kill Gilles in the caverns:
            Return to the Keeper, who agrees to free Lucien. This ends the quest.
        If you convince Gilles to tell Lucien the truth:
            Return to Lucien. If you choose to tell Lucien the truth yourself, the quest ends prematurely. Otherwise, he asks you to help him escape. 

    Freeing Lucien:

        You must learn an incantation to reverse the "paradoxical enchantment" that binds Lucien.
        Speak to the Third Librarian in the tower's library. 
        Select the "paradoxical enchantment" topic and the choice "Your colleagues insult the Sleeping Lord with their small-mindedness" when prompted. The Third Librarian gives you the book "Arcane Enigmas," which contains the incantation. 
        If the Third Librarian does not give you the book, it is located on a table on the library's upper floor. You can also pickpocket it from him.
        Return to Lucien. Select the "paradoxical enchantment" topic to finish the quest.

Quest 5: Brushstrokes of Chaos

    Starting the quest: 
        After finishing Earomar and Lucien's quests, you are force-greeted by a cultist belonging to the tower's secret "Chaos" faction. 
        The greeting will trigger when you pass within a certain distance of a faction member. 
        Faction members are located outside the storeroom and on the living quarters landing. 
        Lucien, Earomar, Talia, Lucien, and Gilles are also members of this faction. 

    Finding the Artist:

        Leave the monastery and return to the Crystal Grotto. 
        Head northwest and enter the Mycelium Spire. Turn right. Do not go down the path. Look for a shrine with the Artist's mark, a lotus flower, and a few levitation potions. 
        Levitate upwards to a ledge and the entrance to Bthumzchekar.
        In Bthumzchekar, head up the stairs and travel northeast until you see another shrine with the Artist's mark and levitation potions. 
        Levitate upwards past ruined structures until you reach the Artist's hidden alcove.

    Speak to the Artist. If you choose to help her, she asks you to find a powerful Daedric artifact and suggests asking the Thieves Guild for leads. 
    If you defer or deny her request for help, you can return at a later time and change your mind.
    At this point, it is strongly recommended that you visit the Keeper for additional context regarding the Artist. 
    In the event that you previously deferred or denied the Artist, the Keeper provides an alternate path to complete the main quest.

    Entering the catacombs:

        No matter whether you take the Artist's or Keeper's path, you have to find the same Daedric artifact to progress the main quest. Andreas Tucca in the Pit directs you to the Suran Temple catacombs. 
        To enter the catacombs, you need to find the key located in the upper sewers' Hlaalu warehouse. 
        The warehouse is guarded by a Level 100 lock. You can use telekinesis to grab the warehouse key from a crate or access the warehouse from the upper floor where a grate has fallen through. 
        The entrance to the catacombs is a false wall located on the second floor of the upper sewers, adjacent to an abandoned storage room.

    Catacombs puzzle:

        Use stealth to avoid alerting the catacombs' caretakers. 
        The lower tomb key is hidden behind a tattered Tribunal banner in a locked iron chest.
        To solve the catacombs' puzzle and access the hidden room, you need to find three items: a pomegranate, glass chisel, and a book entitled "The Words of Vivec."
        The pomegranate is found in the Almalexia tomb.
        The glass chisel is found in the Sotha Sil tomb. It is located up the middle shaft in an alcove decorated with a Tribunal banner. 
        The book is found in the Vivec tomb on a lectern.
        Once all three items are in your possession, head to the wall covered by a House Hlaalu banner. 
        Three false walls open in succession when activated. In the last room, you find the Daedric artifact required to progress the main quest. 

Quest 5: Heart of Order, Soul of Chaos

    Starting the quest: 
        Pick up the Daedric artifact in the Suran Temple catacombs.

    Once you have the Daedric artifact in your possession, return to the tower. 
    The Artist is waiting for you by the vault entrance. 
    Enter the vault together and engage the Keeper in conversation. 
    Make a final choice and prepare to face the consequences. 

-------------------
Side Quests - Tower
-------------------

Quest 1: Investigate the Daedric Energies
    Starting the quest:
        Read note "Warning from First Librarian" on the notice board in front of the living quarters.

    Speak to the First Librarian in the library for more information.
    Daedric rift is located in Suran's upper sewers.
    Eliminate Sheogorath cultists and return to First Librarian for a reward.

Quest 2: Slay a Crystal Golem

    Starting the quest:
        Read note "Warning from Third Librarian" on the notice board in front of the living quarters.
    
    Speak to the Third Librarian in the library for more information.
    Crystal golem is located in Mycelium Spire, to the northwest of the tower.
    Eliminate crystal golem and return to Third Librarian for a reward.

Quest 3: Find The Missing Guardian

    Starting the quest:
        Read note "Guardian Postings" on the notice board in front of the living quarters.

    Speak to the First Guardian in the living quarters for more information.
    Missing guardian is located in Bthumzchekar Pumping Station.
    Recover armor and return to First Guardian for a reward.

Quest 4: Crystal-Clear Waters

    Starting the quest:
        Complete the "Opposites Attract" quest by helping Earomar, then talk to Tendil until a random greeting appears which will add a new topic "crystals are very sensitive".

    Travel to "Bthumzchekar, Pumping Station".
    Read the Dwemer book and add a barrel to the barrel filler machine by pressing the button on the side.
    You need to turn all 3 valves in this cell within a certain timeframe or the barrel will overpressure and explode.
    After successfully filling a barrel, press the button twice more to create a Barrel Centurion.
    Escort the Barrel Centurion back to Tendil to complete the quest.

---------------------------
Side Quests - Thieves Guild
---------------------------

To begin Thieves Guild quests, you must have met the Keeper in the Monastery of Order.

Quest 1: Retrieve the dead drop from Inanius Mine
    Starting the quest:
	Must be Thieves Guild Rank 1.
        Read note "Job Posting - Lost Item" on the notice board in the Pit.

    Speak to the Pit's bartender for more information.
    Missing item is located on a high shelf in the Inanius Eggmine, just after the Upper Sewers entrance.
    Return item to the Pit's bartender for a reward.

Quest 2: Retrieve the Gem of Greedbane

    Starting the quest:
	Must be Thieves Guild Rank 3.
        Read note "Job Posting - Gem of Greedbane" on the notice board in the Pit.

    Speak to the Pit's bartender for more information.
    Key to access inner Marvayn Tomb is lying on a Tribunal altar.
    True Gem of Greedbane is lying inside of a broken urn to the right of the altar in the treasure room.
    Return item to the Pit's bartender for a reward.


Quest 3: Retrieve a Turquoise of Lies

    Starting the quest:
	Must be Thieves Guild Rank 4.
        Read note "Job Posting - Minerals Wanted" on the notice board in the Pit.

    Speak to the Pit's bartender for more information.
    Turquoise of Lies is found in Bthumzchekar, Industrial Station. Ascend the catwalk to the second structure.
    Return item to the Pit's bartender for a reward.





